.TH runat 1 "September 2022" "runat 1.1.0"
.SH NAME
runat \- Wait until a specified time and optionally execute a command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runat
[\fI-hv\fR] [\fI-r <ss>\fR] \fI<start_time>\fR [\fI<command>\fR [\fI<args>\fR]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B runat
waits until a specified time then run \fI<command>\fR.

The \fI<start_time>\fR must be specified in certain formats (see TIME FORMATS).

Time zone can be set using the \fBTZ\fR environment variable.

The script adapts automatically:
.IP -
On macOS, it tries to locate Homebrew \fBgdate\fR (GNU date).
.IP -
If not available, it uses BSD date, which has less precision due to lack of millisecond output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Wait until 2022-07-07 10:00:00 local time, then run \fBecho\fR:
.nf
.B runat '2022-07-07 10:00:00' && echo Hi
.fi
.TP
Alternatively:
.nf
.B TZ=Asia/Tokyo runat '2022-07-07 10:00:00' echo Hi
.fi
.SH TIME FORMATS
.TP
\fB%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S\fR
ISO 8601 date and time format. Example: \fI2022-07-07 10:00:00\fR.
.TP
\fB%H:%M:%S\fR
ISO 8601 time format. Example: \fI10:00:00\fR. In this case, today will be used for the date.
.TP
\fB<seconds>\fR
Number of seconds from now. Example: \fI3600\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Show this help screen.
.TP
\fB-r <ss>\fR
Add random delay between 0 and \fI<ss>\fR seconds.
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Show script name and version number.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH ISSUES
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/remutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2022-2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
