.TH CB2PDF 1 "February 2026" "cb2pdf 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
cb2pdf \- Convert .cbz/.cbr comic archives to PDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cb2pdf
[\fI-hvE\fR] [\fI-d\fR \fIDPI\fR] [\fI-e\fR \fIGLOB\fR] \fIINPUT.cbr|INPUT.cbz\fR [\fIOUTPUT.pdf\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cb2pdf
extracts images from a \fI.cbz\fR or \fI.cbr\fR archive and writes a PDF.

The script prints the input filename when processing starts.

By default, each image becomes one PDF page, and page layout is normalized to a fixed DPI to avoid inconsistent embedded image metadata causing unexpected page sizing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, --dpi \fIDPI\fR
Set output layout DPI. Defaults to \fI300\fR.
.TP
.B \-e, --exclude \fIGLOB\fR
Exclude extracted image paths matching shell glob pattern. Repeatable.
.TP
.B \-E, --no-default-excludes
Disable built-in excludes.
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Show usage help.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
Show script name and version number.
.SH DEFAULT EXCLUDES
Unless \fB-E\fR is set, these path patterns are excluded:
.TP
.B __MACOSX/*
macOS archive metadata directory.
.TP
.B ._*
AppleDouble files.
.TP
.B Thumbs.db
Windows Explorer thumbnail cache file.
.TP
.B .* and */.*
Hidden files and files within hidden directories.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CB2PDF_DPI
Default DPI when \fB-d\fR is not given.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B 7z
Used to extract \fI.cbz\fR archives and attempted first for \fI.cbr\fR.
.TP
.B unrar or unar
Fallback extractors for \fI.cbr\fR when 7z cannot handle a RAR method.
.TP
.B img2pdf
Used to generate PDF output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Convert and write next to input:
.nf
.B cb2pdf issue-001.cbz
.fi
.TP
Convert with explicit output path:
.nf
.B cb2pdf issue-001.cbr output.pdf
.fi
.TP
Set custom DPI:
.nf
.B cb2pdf -d 400 issue-001.cbz output.pdf
.fi
.TP
Add custom excludes:
.nf
.B cb2pdf -e 'extras/*' -e 'ads/*' issue-001.cbz
.fi
.TP
Disable default excludes:
.nf
.B cb2pdf -E issue-001.cbz
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH ISSUES
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/remutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
