.TH WEBSHOT 1 "April 2026" "webshot 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
webshot \- Capture a webpage as an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webshot
[\fI-h\fR] [\fI-v\fR] [\fI-W\fR \fIPIXELS\fR] [\fI-H\fR \fIPIXELS\fR] [\fI-w\fR \fISECONDS\fR] [\fI-z\fR \fIFACTOR\fR] [\fI-d\fR \fIDPI\fR] [\fI-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fI-c\fR \fICSS_FILE\fR] [\fI-j\fR \fIJS_FILE\fR] \fIURL\fR [\fIIMAGE_FILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B webshot
opens a webpage with Puppeteer and saves a viewport screenshot as an image.

The output image format is inferred from the extension of \fIIMAGE_FILE\fR unless overridden with \fB-f\fR.
Supported formats are \fIpng\fR, \fIjpeg\fR, \fIavif\fR, and \fIwebp\fR. The \fIjpg\fR extension maps to \fIjpeg\fR.

When no arguments are supplied,
.B webshot
prints the usage screen and exits successfully.
If \fIIMAGE_FILE\fR is omitted, \fBwebshot\fR writes a file based on the URL.
The default extension is \fB.png\fR unless \fB-f\fR sets another format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show the usage screen.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the version.
.TP
.B \-W \fIPIXELS\fR
Set the viewport width. The default is 1200.
.TP
.B \-H \fIPIXELS\fR
Set the viewport height. The default is 630.
.TP
.B \-w \fISECONDS\fR
Wait this many seconds after the page loads before capturing. Fractional values are allowed. The default is 0.
.TP
.B \-z \fIFACTOR\fR
Set the page zoom factor. The default is 1.
.TP
.B \-d \fIDPI\fR
Set the screenshot density in DPI. The default is 96, which maps to a device scale factor of 1.
.TP
.B \-f \fIFORMAT\fR
Override the image format. Valid formats are \fIpng\fR, \fIjpeg\fR, \fIavif\fR, and \fIwebp\fR.
.TP
.B \-c \fICSS_FILE\fR
Embed the contents of a CSS file before capture.
.TP
.B \-j \fIJS_FILE\fR
Run the contents of a JavaScript file before capture.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Capture the page to a PNG file:
.nf
.B webshot https://example.com share.png
.fi
.TP
Capture a 1200 by 630 WebP image after a short delay:
.nf
.B webshot -W 1200 -H 630 -w 0.5 https://example.com og.webp
.fi
.TP
Capture with larger page zoom and 2x pixel density:
.nf
.B webshot -z 1.25 -d 192 https://example.com og@2x.png
.fi
.TP
Inject CSS and JavaScript before capturing a JPEG image:
.nf
.B webshot -c share.css -j prepare.js https://example.com card.jpg
.fi
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Node.js
Used to run the command-line tool.
.TP
.B Puppeteer
Used to automate the browser capture.
.TP
.B sharp
Used to write AVIF output.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH ISSUES
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/remutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
