.TH COMPROSE 1 "July 2026" "comprose 0.1.0"
.SH NAME
comprose \- Create and import prose content entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comprose
\fIhelp\fR
.br
.B comprose
\fInew\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fISLUG\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fITITLE\fR]
.br
.B comprose
\fIimport\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIPATH\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B comprose
creates Markdown entry scaffolds for prose-oriented static sites.
It can also import a directory containing Markdown, optional CSS, and referenced images into a selected Mustache-backed template layout.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Show the usage screen.
.TP
.B new
Create a new content entry scaffold.
.TP
.B import
Import a directory into a new content entry.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --template \fINAME-OR-PATH\fR
Set the template layout. Built-in templates are \fBastro-content\fR and \fBmiddleman-blog\fR. Defaults to \fBastro-content\fR.
.TP
.B \-s \fISLUG\fR
Set the entry slug.
.TP
.B \-t \fITITLE\fR
Set the entry title.
.TP
.B \-d \fIISO-8601\fR
Set the entry date. Date-only, date-time, and date-time with offset values are accepted.
.TP
.B \-k\fR, \fB--type\fR, \fB--kind\fR \fIKIND\fR
Set the entry kind. Valid values are \fIarticle\fR and \fInote\fR.
.TP
.B \-g \fITAG\fR
Add a tag to frontmatter. May be repeated.
.TP
.B \-i \fIPATH\fR
Copy an image into the entry public folder. May be repeated.
.TP
.B \-e
Open created text files in \fBEDITOR\fR after scaffolding.
.TP
.B \-o
Open the public folder in Finder after scaffolding.
.TP
.B \-f
For \fBimport\fR, replace an existing generated entry.
.TP
.B \-p\fR, \fB--project\fR \fINAME\fR
Set the content section name. Defaults to the current directory name.
.TP
.B --pubname \fINAME\fR
Set the generated frontmatter \fBpubname\fR.
.TP
.B --content-root \fIPATH\fR
Override the content root. Defaults to \fBsrc/content/<project>\fR.
.TP
.B --styles-root \fIPATH\fR
Override the styles root. Defaults to \fBsrc/styles/<project>\fR.
.TP
.B --public-root \fIPATH\fR
Override the public asset root. Defaults to \fBpublic/<project>\fR.
.TP
.B --images-root \fIPATH\fR
Alias for \fB--public-root\fR.
.TP
.B --public-prefix \fIPATH\fR
Override the public URL prefix. Defaults to \fB/<project>\fR.
.TP
.B --images-prefix \fIPATH\fR
Alias for \fB--public-prefix\fR.
.TP
.B --style-prefix \fIPATH\fR
Override the style frontmatter prefix. Defaults to \fB<project>\fR.
.SH TEMPLATES
.TP
.B astro-content
Writes \fBsrc/content/<project>/<date>-<slug>/index.md\fR, a matching stylesheet, and assets under \fBpublic/<project>/<slug>/\fR.
.TP
.B middleman-blog
Writes \fB<content-root>/<slug>.html.md\fR and assets under \fB<content-root>/<slug>/\fR. It does not create a stylesheet by default.
.PP
Custom template directories can be passed to \fB--template\fR. They must contain \fBentry.md.mustache\fR and may contain \fBstyle.css.mustache\fR. A custom directory may include \fBlayout.json\fR with \fB{ "layout": "middleman-blog" }\fR; otherwise it uses the \fBastro-content\fR path layout.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a new article:
.nf
.B comprose new --template astro-content -p journal --pubname example-journal -s my-new-entry
.fi
.TP
Create a Middleman-style entry:
.nf
.B comprose new --template middleman-blog --content-root source/posts -s my-new-entry
.fi
.TP
Import a prepared source directory:
.nf
.B comprose import --template middleman-blog --content-root source/posts /tmp/source-entry
.fi
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Node.js
Used to run the command-line tool.
.TP
.B Mustache
Used to render entry and stylesheet templates.
.TP
.B sharp
Used to convert JPEG, WebP, and related image inputs to AVIF.
.TP
.B ImageMagick
Used for HEIC, PNG, and GIF import processing.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH ISSUES
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/remutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
