.TH LITESITE 1 "May 2026" "litesite 2.0.0"
.SH NAME
litesite \- create and work with tiny static sites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B litesite
[\fB-C\fR \fIDIR\fR] [\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIARGS...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B litesite
works on a site root that contains \fBsrc/\fR, \fB.deploy-filter\fR,
\fBjustfile\fR, and \fB.editorconfig\fR.

It can build the site into \fBdist/\fR, serve the public directory, deploy the
output with \fBrsdeploy\fR, regenerate compressed assets and AVIF JPG/WebP
derivatives, expand SSI-style file includes in HTML files, or scaffold a new
site.

When no command is supplied,
.B litesite
runs the usage screen
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B build
Build \fBdist/\fR from \fBsrc/\fR, expand SSI-style HTML file includes unless
disabled, minify HTML/CSS/JS unless disabled, copy public assets, generate
sibling \fB*.avif.jpg\fR and \fB*.avif.webp\fR derivatives, and write
compressed Brotli, gzip, and zstd variants.
.TP
.B clean
Remove \fBdist/\fR.
.TP
.B serve
Run a local preview server against \fBsrc/public/\fR.
.TP
.B deploy
Build the site and deploy \fBdist/\fR. Pass \fB-n\fR to preview a dry-run
deployment. \fBrsdeploy\fR is required for this command.
.TP
.B compress
Regenerate Brotli, gzip, and zstd files for \fBdist/\fR.
.TP
.B media
Regenerate sibling \fB*.avif.jpg\fR and \fB*.avif.webp\fR derivatives in
\fBdist/\fR.
.TP
.B new \fISLUG\fR [\fIDEST\fR]
Create a new site scaffold.
.TP
.B init \fISLUG\fR [\fIDEST\fR]
Alias for \fBnew\fR.
.TP
.B jpg \fIFILES...\fR
Convert AVIF files to JPG beside the source path.
.TP
.B webp \fIFILES...\fR
Convert AVIF files to WebP beside the source path.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -C \fIDIR\fR
Run against another site root.
.TP
.B -h
Show help.
.TP
.B -v
Show version.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_BROTLI
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip Brotli output.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_GZIP
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip gzip output.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_ZSTD
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip zstd output.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_INCLUDES
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip HTML file includes.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_MINIFY
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip HTML/CSS/JS
minification.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_AVIF_JPEG
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip JPG derivative generation.
.TP
.B LITESITE_BUILD_AVIF_WEBP
Set to \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR, \fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR to skip WebP derivative generation.
.SH NOTES
When \fBnew\fR or \fBinit\fR is called without \fIDEST\fR, the new site is
created as \fB./\fISLUG\fR\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
