.TH IMGMOD 1 "July 7, 2026" "imgmod 2.1.0"
.SH NAME
imgmod \- Image modification helpers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imgmod
[\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR]
.br
.B imgmod
[\fB-v\fR|\fB--version\fR]
.br
.B imgmod
[\fB-O\fR|\fB--optim\fR|\fB--optimize\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B imgmod
[\fB-y\fR|\fB--overwrite\fR] [\fB-i\fR|\fB--interactive\fR] [\fB-N\fR|\fB--no-overwrite\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B imgmod
\fB-n\fR \fINAME-OR-PATH\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B imgmod
is a plugin-based wrapper for image modification commands.

Commands are executable plugin files named \fBimgmod-\fICOMMAND\fR. Users run
plugins through the wrapper as \fBimgmod \fICOMMAND\fR.

Bundled plugins are installed next to the wrapper. Local plugins are searched
from XDG data directories before bundled plugins, so local plugins can override
bundled commands.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B collage
Stitch multiple images together vertically or horizontally.
.TP
.B completion
Print shell completion data and generated completion scripts.
.TP
.B newplugin
Create a new imgmod plugin from a template.
.TP
.B optim
Optimize an image directly with image_optim.
.TP
.B png8
Convert an image to PNG8.
.TP
.B scale4x
Scale an image 4x without smoothing.
.TP
.B socshare
Crop and resize an image to 1200x630 for social sharing.
.TP
.B vidframe
Extract one frame from a video as an image.
.TP
.B help \fICOMMAND\fR
Show help for a command.
.TP
.B version
Show script name and version number.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Show usage help.
.TP
.B \-n \fINAME-OR-PATH\fR
Create a new plugin. This is a shortcut for \fBimgmod newplugin\fR.
.TP
.B \-y, --overwrite
Overwrite an existing output file without prompting.
.TP
.B \-i, --interactive
Prompt before overwriting an existing output file.
.TP
.B \-N, --no-overwrite
Refuse to overwrite an existing output file.
.TP
.B \-O, --optim, --optimize
Optimize plugin image outputs with \fBimage_optim\fR.
Only files reported by a plugin with \fBimgmod_output\fR are optimized.
.TP
.B \-o
Deprecated alias for \fB-O\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
Show script name and version number.
.SH PLUGIN LOOKUP
Plugin lookup order is:
.TP
1.
\fB$XDG_DATA_HOME/imgmod/plugins\fR, defaulting to
\fB$HOME/.local/share/imgmod/plugins\fR.
.TP
2.
Each \fB$XDG_DATA_DIRS\fR entry with \fB/imgmod/plugins\fR appended,
defaulting to \fB/usr/local/share/imgmod/plugins\fR and
\fB/usr/share/imgmod/plugins\fR.
.TP
3.
Bundled plugins next to the \fBimgmod\fR wrapper.
.SH PLUGIN API
Plugins that use \fBlib/imgmod.sh\fR define hooks named from their command
prefix, such as \fBwatermark_start\fR, and call
\fBimgmod_plugin_run "$@"\fR.

Plugins call \fBimgmod_output \fIFILE\fR to report image output files that can
be optimized with \fBimgmod -O\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.local/share/imgmod/plugins/imgmod-*
User plugin executables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a social sharing image:
.nf
.B imgmod socshare image.png
.fi
.TP
Create and optimize a social sharing image:
.nf
.B imgmod -O socshare image.png
.fi
.TP
Optimize an image directly:
.nf
.B imgmod optim image.png
.fi
.TP
Create a new local plugin:
.nf
.B imgmod newplugin watermark
.fi
.TP
List completion command candidates:
.nf
.B imgmod completion commands
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR imgmod-collage (1),
.BR imgmod-completion (1),
.BR imgmod-newplugin (1),
.BR imgmod-optim (1),
.BR imgmod-png8 (1),
.BR imgmod-scale4x (1),
.BR imgmod-socshare (1),
.BR imgmod-vidframe (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH ISSUES
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/remutils>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Rémino Rem.

License ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
